---
title: "Steampipe Table: docker_compose_volume - Query Docker Compose Volumes using SQL"
description: "Allows users to query Docker Compose Volumes, providing insights into the configuration and status of volumes used in Docker Compose."
---

# Table: docker_compose_volume - Query Docker Compose Volumes using SQL

Docker Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications. With Compose, you use a YAML file to configure your application’s services. Specifically, Docker Compose Volumes are used as a mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers.

## Table Usage Guide

The `docker_compose_volume` table provides insights into Docker Compose Volumes. As a DevOps engineer, explore volume-specific details through this table, including volume configuration, status, and associated metadata. Utilize it to uncover information about volumes, such as those with specific configurations, the status of volumes, and the verification of volume data.

## Examples

### Basic info
Explore which Docker Compose volumes are in use and determine their associated drivers. This can help identify instances where specific drivers or volumes may be causing issues, allowing for targeted troubleshooting and optimization.

```sql
select
  name,
  driver,
  jsonb_pretty(driver_opts) as driver_opts,
  jsonb_pretty(external) as external
from
  docker_compose_volume;
```

### List the external configuration of volumes
Explore the external setup of your storage spaces to understand how they are configured and managed. This is beneficial for reviewing and optimizing your storage utilization strategy.

```sql
select
  name,
  driver,
  external ->> 'Name' as external_name,
  external ->> 'External' as external,
  external -> 'Extensions' as external_extensions
from
  docker_compose_volume;
```

### List volumes with local driver
Explore which Docker volumes are using the local driver. This can be used to assess the configuration for potential storage optimizations or to identify instances where a different driver might be more appropriate.

```sql
select
  name,
  driver,
  jsonb_pretty(driver_opts) as driver_opts,
  jsonb_pretty(external) as external
from
  docker_compose_volume
where
  driver = 'local';
```